---
title: Configure and Customize Logshark
---

By default, LogShark picks up its configuration settings from the config file that is located in the `<LogShark_install_location>\Config\LogSharkConfig.json` file. Some of these configuration settings can be overridden at the command line. Other settings can only be set in the configuration file. 

In this section:

* TOC
{:toc}

-----------

### Config
Example of config file

```xml
{
  "HyperServerLocation": "Hyper",
  "Logging": {
    "PathFormat": "Logs/LogShark-{Date}.log",
    "Json": false,
    "FileSizeLimitBytes": 10485760,
    "RetainedFileCountLimit": 5,
    "LogLevel": {
      "Default": "Debug",
      "Microsoft": "Information"
    },
    "Console": {
      "IncludeScopes": true
    }
  },
  "EnvironmentConfig": {
    "TempDirOverride": null,
    "OutputDir": "Output",
    "OutputDirMaxResults": null,
    "WorkbookTemplatesDir": "Workbooks",
    "CustomWorkbookTemplatesDir": null,
    "NumberOfErrorDetailsToKeep": 25,
    "AppendLogsetNameToOutput": false
  },
  "TableauServer": {
    "Url": "<EnterServerUrlHere>",
    "Site": "<EnterSiteNameHere>",
    "Username": "<EnterUsernameHere>",
    "Password": "<EnterPasswordHere>",
    "Timeout": 240,
    "GroupsToProvideWithDefaultPermissions": [],
    "ParentProject": {
      "Id": "",
      "Name": ""
    }
}
```
----
### Including your own Custom Workbooks
One of the neat features LogShark 4.0 provides, is the ability to easily include your own custom workbooks in a LogShark run. You can specify a folder where your custom workbooks are located in `CustomWorkbookTemplatesDir` variable in the config file. **Make sure that the extract file name(s) in your customized workbooks match the name(s) of the extract file(s) generated by LogShark run.** During next run LogShark will include your workbooks in the run. Please note that if you modify workbooks in LogShark\'s `<LogShark_install_location>/Workbooks` folder, all your subsequent runs will be affected.

NOTE: You need to escape back slashes by using double slashes.

```xml
"CustomWorkbookTemplatesDir": "C:\\Users\\Full Path\\My Awesome Workbooks",
```

----
### Saving Output in a Different Directory
By default LogShark saves the resulting workbooks in an `Output` folder in the directory from where it was ran. If you want to specify a different directory, add a full path to the `OutputDir` variable in the config file.

NOTE: You need to escape back slashes by using double slashes.

```xml
"OutputDir": "C:\\Users\\Full Path\\All the answers you need",
```

----
### Providing a custom name for your project folder
LogShark creates a project folder where all generated workbooks are saved. The default name of a project is  *`Timestamp-MachineName-FileName`*, where *`Timestamp`* is the time stamp that indicates when the logs were processed, *`MachineName`* is the name of the computer where Logshark was run, and *`FileName`* is the name of the archive file. The project contains all the workbooks for the archive file. If you want to replace *`MachineName-FileName`* portion with your own *`RunID`*, you can do so by specifying the Run ID in the command line. The resulting project folder will be named *`Timestamp-RunID`*, where *`RunID`* is the runID you provided in the command line.

```
   logshark <LogSetLocation> <RunId>
```


----
### Attach Logset's Name to the Workbook
If you are working on several logsets at the same time, having several Apache workbooks open at the same time can get confusing quickly. With this version you can differentiate between workbooks by attaching the name of the logset to the workbook name by setting `AppendLogsetNameToOutput` to **true**. The resulting workbooks will be named **<PluginName>_<LogsetName>.twbx**, e.g. **Apache_TinyLog.twbx**.


```xml
"AppendLogsetNameToOutput": true
```

You can also override the config value in command line using  `--workbookname "<string>"`command. 


----
### Changing format of LogShark's logs to JSON
LogShark generates saves run summaries as logs in the LogShark’s `<LogShark_install_location>\Logs` folder. You can specify the format to be JSON by flipping the Json switch to true. 

 
```xml
"Json": true,
```