---
title: Logshark Command Options
---

Full usage can be viewed at any time by invoking `logshark --help`.  The only required argument is the target, which can be either an archive (zip file), a directory, or a logset hash. A logset is a set of log files that you process at one time with Logshark. Logshark generates a hash value (checksum) for each set of logs that gets processed.

**Logshark command syntax**

   <code>logshark <i>Target</i> [<i>Options</i>]...</code>





***Target***

Target can be an archive (zip) file, a hash value (from a previous Logshark run), or the path and name of a directory.

 
<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Options</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--args [&quot;arg1”] ...</code></td>
<td><p>Set of custom arguments that will be passed to plugins. For example:</p>
<p><code>logshark --args &quot;PluginName.MyCustomArg:MyValue&quot; ...</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>--dbname &lt;name&gt;</code></td>
<td>Sets a custom name for the database instance where plugin output is stored. If not specified, a new instance will be generated. The default behavior is to generate a new database for each run. If a name is specified and the given database name already exists, the data generated by this run will be appended to it.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>-d, --dropparsedlogset</code></td>
<td>(Default: <code>False</code>) Drops the parsed logset from MongoDB at the end of the run. Logsets parsed by previous runs will be ignored.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>-f, --forceparse</code></td>
<td>(Default: <code>False</code>) Forces a fresh parse of the logset, overriding any existing data in MongoDB.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--listplugins</code></td>
<td>Lists information about all available Logshark plugins.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>--localmongoport &lt;port&gt;</code></td>
<td>(Default: <code>27017</code>) Port which the temporary local MongoDB process will run on.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--metadata [&quot;key:value”] ...</code></td>
<td><p>Set of custom metadata key/value pairs that will stored in the resulting Mongo database. For example:</p>
<p><code>logshark ... --metadata &quot;SalesforceId:SomeValue TFSDefect:SomeOtherValue&quot; ...</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><code>--plugins all | default | none | &lt;plugin&gt;</code></p>
<p><code>--plugins &quot;&lt;plugin1&gt; &lt;plugin2&gt; ...&quot;</code></p></td>
<td>(Default: <code>default</code>) Specifies the plugin (or list of plugins) to run against the processed log set. Also accepts <code>all</code> to run all plugins, or <code>none</code> to bypass plugin execution. To specify more than one plugin, separate the name of each plugin with a space, and enclose the list in quotation marks. See <a href="logshark_plugins">Logshark plugins and generated workbooks</a>.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--parseall</code></td>
<td>(Default: <code>False</code>) Parse full logset into MongoDB. If false, only the logs required for active plugins will be parsed.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>-p</code><br />
<code>--publishworkbooks</code> </td>
<td>(Default: <code>False</code>) Publish resulting workbooks to Tableau Server.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--projectdescription</code></td>
<td>Sets the Tableau Server project description where any workbooks will be published.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>--projectname &lt;project&gt;</code></td>
<td>Sets the Tableau Server project name where any workbooks will be published.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>-s</code> <br>
<code>--startlocalmongo</code> </td>
<td>(Default: <code>False</code>) Start up a temporary local MongoDB process for this run. Recommended for small log sets only, that is, smaller than 2 GB</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>--sitename &lt;site&gt;</code></td>
<td>Sets the name of the Tableau Server site where any workbooks will be published. This site must already exist and the user specified in Logshark.config must have permissions to publish and create projects in it. This value overrides the Site value specified in Logshark.config.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>--tags</code></td>
<td>List of tags that will written to the resulting workbook(s).<br />
For example: <code>--tags &quot;MyTag MyOtherTag&quot; </code></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>--help</code></td>
<td>Display Logshark command help.</td> 
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<!-- for some reason, the following tags show up at the top of the table -- >

<!-- </tr>  -->
